If you love chocolate, maybe you have eaten a bar of Cadbury’s Bournville chocolate. But Bournville isn’t just the name of an English chocolate bar. It’s the name of a village which was built especially for workers at the Cadbury’s chocolate factory. George and Richard Cadbury took over the cocoa and chocolate business from their father in 1861. A few years later, they decided to move the factory out of the centre of Birmingham, a city in the middle of England, to a new location where they could expand. They chose an area close to the railways and canals so that they could receive milk deliveries easily and send the finished products to stores across the country. Here, the air was much cleaner than in the city centre, and the Cadbury brothers thought it would be a much healthier place for their employees to work. They named the site Bournville after a local river called ‘The Bourn’. ‘Ville’, the French word for town, was used because at the time, people thought French chocolate was the highest quality. The new factory opened in 1879. Close to it, they built a village where the factory workers could live. By 1900, there were 313 houses on the site, and many more were built later. The Cadbury family were religious and believed that it was right to help other people. They thought their workers deserved to live and work in good conditions. In the factory, workers were given a fair wage, a pension and access to medical treatment. The village was also designed to provide the best possible conditions for workers too. The houses, although traditional in style, had modern interiors, indoor bathrooms and large gardens. The village provided everything that workers needed including a shop, a school and a community centre where evening classes were held to train young members of the workforce. Since the Cadbury family believed that their workers and their families should be fit and healthy, they added a park with hockey and football pitches, a running track, bowling green, fishing lake, and an outdoor swimming pool. A large clubhouse was built in the park so that players could change their clothes and relax after a game. Dances and dinners were also held here for the factory workers, who were never charged to use any of the sports facilities. However, because the Cadbury’s believed that alcohol was bad for health and society, no pubs were ever built in Bourneville!Anyone who loves sports will agree that cheating is bad. For example, it was simply wrong for Spain to enter people who were not actually disabled into the 2000 Sydney Paralympics basketball team. But sometimes, it is hard to draw a line between what is cheating and what is not. Many sports encourage players to be ‘sporting’, that is, to play honestly and accept when they lose. However, in sports, the prizes for winning are great, so it is natural for people to use different ways to win a game. Sometimes players cheat or bend the rules to get an advantage in a game. Gamesmanship is when you try to win a game by bending the rules or using dubious tactics. For example, when British Team cyclist Philip Hindes had a bad start in a team race in the 2012 Olympics, he didn’t want to let his team down, and since he knew that if a rider fell early, the race would be restarted, he crashed his bike on purpose. Britain went on to win gold. Other examples of gamesmanship are when players fake injuries or waste time. This might give them a chance for a short rest, or it could annoy their opponent and affect their concentration. For example, at the 2016 Rio Olympics, badminton player Carolina Marins screamed and shouted every time her opponent made a mistake. This affected her opponent’s feelings, and people thought she behaved rudely. However, she won the gold medal without breaking any rules. When there is a grey area, it is the referee or umpire’s job to decide whether cheating is taking place. However, players can take advantage of this situation because referees aren’t perfect and can’t see everything. For example, in cricket, if the ball hits a batter’s legs, he is out, and most batters know when they are out, so they should leave the field immediately. However, few cricketers are sporting. They wait until the umpire tells them to go because they want to stay in the game, and the umpire might not see what happened. This isn’t considered cheating.Sea turtles are amazing animals that have lived in our oceans for millions of years. However, today, they face many dangers. One of these comes from non-natural light. When baby sea turtles, also called hatchlings, come out of their eggs, they need to find the ocean quickly. They usually do this by following the natural light of the Moon and stars reflecting off the water. But in many places, artificial lights – from streets, buildings, and homes – are much brighter than the Moon. These lights can confuse baby sea turtles and make it hard for them to find their way to the ocean. This causes them to lose their way and head toward the land instead of the sea. When this happens, the baby turtles can get lost, dehydrated, or even be eaten by other animals. Although artificial light is usually a problem for sea turtles, we don’t have to live in the dark to protect them. Research shows that using special artificial lights, placed low to the ground and slightly covered so they can’t be seen from the beach, reduces the chances of sea turtles getting confused. These turtle-friendly lights are also better for people as they can improve visibility while driving by reducing the shine on the car windows. If you live near the coast or are visiting a beach where sea turtles live, you can help. Use lights that are not bright and low to the ground. Close curtains at night to reduce the amount of light coming from inside buildings. Sea turtles have another enemy. Every year, hundreds of thousands of these sea animals are caught by large fishing boats in their fishing nets by accident – this means six to eight turtles daily for each boat in Mexico alone. Surprisingly, in this case, artificial lights can be helpful for sea turtles.The Statue of Liberty is probably the most famous icon of the USA. It was built to celebrate the end of slavery, and later became a symbol for freedom among immigrants. The statue depicts Libertas, the Roman goddess of liberty. And the torch she carries high above her outstretched arm represents a light that guides people along the path to freedom. Interestingly, however, Liberty looks different from the way the designer first intended. The idea for the statue came from a poet, ?douard de Laboulaye. When the American Civil war ended, he wanted to commemorate the end of the slave trade with a gift. He and other people who opposed slavery raised money and hired a sculptor, Fr?d?ric-Auguste Bartholdi, to design the statue. Bartholdi later employed the French engineer, Gustave Eiffel, to devise its structure. Eiffel, who would subsequently build the famous tower in Paris, was already a well-known designer of railway bridges. So he knew how to build robust structures that are flexible and safe in strong winds. This feature was necessary because the winds in New York harbor are extremely strong. Today, the top of her torch swings over 15cm when the wind is blowing at 50 miles per hour. Eiffel designed the statue to be built around a massive metal skeleton, similar to the Eiffel tower. Huge pieces of copper were fixed onto this to form its shape. Until recently, two copies of the plans were believed to exist. But recently, a third copy was discovered, which revealed some interesting information. In 2018, a map dealer bought some historic papers at an auction in Paris, which included original plans, calculations, and drawings of the statue. At first, the documents were too fragile to read. But after special treatment, the papers clearly showed that Eiffel’s plans had been changed by Bartholdi with red ink. Liberty’s arm, which was thick and vertical in Eiffel’s drawing, was adjusted to be slimmer, less upright, and generally more attractive than Eiffels’ design.A few decades ago, professional footballers spent their nights partying. Now, they are much more aware of the benefits of a good night’s sleep. The change began in the mid-1990s, when mattress salesman Nick Littlehales contacted the manager of the Manchester United football team, Alex Ferguson, asking whether he had ever considered how sleep affected performance on the pitch. Interested, Ferguson arranged for Littlehales to give a presentation to his team. Before long, the whole team had new mattresses and pillows, and Littlehales soon became football’s leading mattress advisor. In 1998, he supplied mattresses for England’s World Cup team, and at the 2004 Euros, he created individual sleep routines for every player. Gradually, club managers began to pay more attention to scientific sleep research, and for good reason. In 2011, sleep specialist Cheri Mah discovered that increasing sleep to 8-10 hours per night massively increased the speed and shot accuracy of basketball players. Other research shows that a single night of inadequate sleep can increase the risk of injury, and 64 hours of bad sleep reduces strength, power and balance, and can even cause the body to eat its own muscles! Consequently, managers started trying to improve their players’ sleep. Southampton Football Club’s manager Alek Gross, for example, forbade his players from consuming caffeine, sugar or fatty foods, which prevent sleep, in the evenings. Instead, they were given milky protein drinks which made them tired. Together with Manchester United sports scientist Robin Thorpe, he drew up a sleep and training schedule to optimize performance. Even the hotel bedrooms were set to the ideal sleeping temperature. The players supported the routine. In fact, on the evening of a game, their captain Rafael Marquez even asked fans who were celebrating at the same hotel to keep quiet because the team were sleeping. The intervention was a great success. Mexico won their next game versus South Korea and even beat Germany in their group. Now, many teams and players are making an effort to improve their sleep patterns, using various means. Manchester City player Sergio Aguero, for example, was finding it hard to sleep because his muscular body prevented his legs from closing when he lay on his side. He got a new mattress which matched his height and weight, thus keeping his neck and back aligned in the night. Meanwhile, James Milner from Manchester City found it hard to sleep after evening games, so would play computer games into the early hours. As a result, he was too tired to train the following morning.